The theme for this month is, in whom do you trust?
Do you trust me?
I hope so.
All of us want to be trusted.
A trust is a basic element of everyday life.
To trust others is a normal reaction.
Many of us have traveled on the train or bus.
Did we worry whether the conductor or driver would bring a safely to our destination?
Normally, we do not worry.
We trust an airplane captain to take us safely to our destination.
We trust that when we enter an elevator,
that it will not crash at the bottom of the shaft,
but safely take us to the desired floor.
When we marry, we trust that our partner will remain faithful.
In many situations in life, we need trust.
What is trust?
Trust is the firm belief in the reliability, truth,
or ability of someone or something.
Webster's dictionary says that it is confidence,
a reliance or resting of the mind on the integrity,
veracity, justice, friendship,
or other sound principle of another person.
Trust is related to confidence, belief, faith, and assurance.
Experiments conducted by Professor Dr. Mikhail Kosfeld,
a professor at a university in Frankfurt, Germany,
led him to the conclusion that trust is a biologically-based part of human nature.
Kosfeld discovered that when there's interaction between two people,
the human brain releases a hormone that stimulates trust.
It is, in fact, one of the distinguishing features of the human species, Kosfeld states.
In everyday life, how discouraged some are if they are not trusted.
The phrase, don't you trust me?
Is frequently heard with an undertone of sadness or complaint?
Sometimes children or teenagers ask their parents, don't you trust me?
When the parents place some restrictions on them,
perhaps in connection with leisure time activities.
Parents do that because they love you young ones
and want to prevent any spiritual or physical harm before you.
If you cooperate, you will see that parents will gradually trust you ever more
and grant you more liberty to you.
You can prove to them that you are trustworthy.
In the world, many people are not trustworthy.
Since we are living in the time of the end,
and the demons are desperate and have influenced many people,
we have to admit that trusting in everybody is not wise.
Many trusted in religion and were disappointed.
Others trusted in governments or the United Nations, but they were disappointed.
They trusted political leaders that made all kinds of promises,
but did not keep all of them.
Some politicians even were exposed as being liars.
Proverbs 14, 15 says,
the naive person believes every word,
but the shrewd one ponders each step.
If somebody, even in the truth, promises as big monetary returns
if we give him money for his plant investment,
we need to be careful and not believe every word.
Some that spent their money were in for a disappointment when they learned
that everything was lost.
We also should not trust everything we read in newspapers or see on television.
There's another thing we should not trust in.
Riches.
Psalm 496 speaks about those who are trusting in their wealth
and who boast about their great riches.
Trusting in riches often leads to disappointment.
The one trusting in his riches will fall, says Proverbs 11, 28.
It is not wrong to be rich, just do not trust in riches.
Riches are a risk factor.
Many people today are dishonest and cheat.
Some business owners have installed cameras at the workplace
since they do not trust their employees to put in a full day of work.
They know that some would play video games during work hours.
But Jehovah created us with the inclination to trust.
We can especially trust our spiritual brothers.
True, once in a while such trust is misplaced,
a few commit serious sins and have to be disfellowshipped, but that is rare.
Jehovah himself is the best example of trusting in others.
He trusted the logos to faithfully cooperate with him as the master worker
in creating the universe, the earth, and all the living things on earth, including mankind.
What tremendous trust Jehovah showed in Jesus
when he sent him to the earth.
Jehovah trusted that Jesus would remain faithful and redeem mankind
so that his will and purpose with mankind and the earth could be accomplished.
Jehovah trusted him so much that he arranged for prophecies to be written
that foretold that he would die faithfully.
This trust on the part of Jehovah was not a risk.
It was based on the collaboration between the two for eons of time.
Think of the prophecy in Psalm 1610,
for you will not leave me in the grave.
Jesus had free will.
This means that theoretically he could have sinned.
If he could not have sinned, Satan would probably not have tried three times to tempt Jesus to sin.
If Jesus could not have sinned, why would he be so heavily distressed in the Garden of Gethsemane
that he was sweating blood?
Why send an angel to comfort and strengthen him if he could not sin or fail anyway?
No question.
Jesus felt the unfathomable load on his shoulders to remain faithful
since not only the salvation of mankind depended on him,
but also the vindication of Jehovah's sovereignty.
He did not want to disappoint Jehovah.
Jesus used his own free will and was determined to stay loyal.
How glad we are that he did.
On the other hand, Jesus also trusted Jehovah completely.
He trusted Jehovah that he would resurrect him if he would die faithfully.
Actually, Jesus was publicly known to trust in Jehovah.
People that passed by when he was on the torture stake were saying,
he has put his trust in God, let him now rescue him if he wants him.
For he said, I am God's son.
Another example of trust was Abraham.
When God told him to kill his beloved son Isaac, Abraham was willing to do so.
He trusted that Jehovah could resurrect him.
Hebrews 11, 19 says, he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead.
And he did receive him from there in an illustrative way.
1 Corinthians 137 says, that love believes all things.
Love trust that prophecies will come true.
It also believes what our brothers tell us.
It also helps to grant others the benefit of the doubt if a matter could be interpreted in different ways.
Yes, trusting others is an expression of love.
If you love somebody, you only assume and think the best of him.
Another example of trust in Jehovah was Moses.
He led the nation of Israel out of Egypt into the desert.
A nation of upwards of three million people.
And they had flocks of cattle and sheep with them.
When he left Egypt, did he know how to provide these great crowds with water in the desert?
Did he know what they would be eating after the initial foodstuffs that they took out of Egypt would run out?
Did he know in advance that Jehovah would miraculously provide the manor?
It doesn't seem so.
But he trusted that Jehovah would take care of the people.
The three friends of Daniel were another fine example of trust.
They did not bow and worship in front of an idol that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
They were told they would be thrown into a fiery furnace if they disobeyed.
They remained firm and were protected by an angel,
so the fire did not do any harm to them.
After that, Nebuchadnezzar then declared,
praised me the God of Shadrach, Mishak and Abednego,
who sent his angel and rescued his servants.
They trusted in him and went against the command of the King
and were willing to die rather than serve or worship any God except their own God.
As we are getting ever closer to the great tribulation,
we might be confronted with scary challenges and tests related to nationalism.
Will we keep trusting Jehovah?
We trust we will.
Jehovah will miraculously save his people throughout the great tribulation
and arrange for their survival.
Today, the faithful slave was put in charge of providing spiritual food
for God's people who number into the millions.
The slave also shows complete trust in Jehovah that he will guide them
with his Holy Spirit.
What makes it possible for the faithful and discreet slave
to provide precious spiritual food?
I will give you insight and structure in the way you should go,
says Jehovah, Psalm 32, verse 8.
Today, Jehovah provides direction to the slave through Jesus.
Jesus, in turn, provides direction for his people through the faithful
and discreet slave.
We can have, therefore, full confidence in the scriptural insight,
understanding and guidance.
Satan tries to sow mistrust.
Under Communist dictatorship in Romania,
secret police officers forced a responsible brother
to walk with them on a heavily frequented street,
hoping that other brothers would see this
and wrongly conclude that this brother works with a secret police.
Did the scheme work out?
No, it failed.
Brothers did see him but kept trusting him.
We learn that we should not quickly lose trust in our brothers.
Satan also has the scheme to spread rumors about faithful brothers,
including the faithful slave.
The method of spreading rumors is not new.
When Jesus was resurrected and the tomb was empty,
the soldiers that reported it were told to spread the rumor
that the disciples came and stole the body at night.
March 28, 15, relates.
So they took the silver pieces and did, as they were instructed.
And this story has been spread abroad among the Jews
up to this very day.
Another rumor in the first century was that Christians
were responsible for the great fire of Rome.
Could such accusation be true?
Historians say that it was narrow the emperor
who set fire to the city.
Today, rumors are occasionally being spread in electronic form
about the faithful slave.
This has caused some concern on the part of some brothers,
especially when the reports are commenting on court cases
where some in the organization were accused.
Sometimes references made to certain quotes
and readers then think, how can a quote be a rumor?
A quote can be taken out of context.
Critical reports often give only part of a matter
and leave out other aspects.
Often such rumors play on the emotions.
Ask yourself, am I prone to believe rumors?
And even if I am, should I spread it and undermine the trust
that others have in the slave or in representative
of the branch office?
Avoid sensationalism by saying something like,
can you believe what I heard about this matter or that matter
or this person or that person referring to a statement
that may have appeared on Facebook, YouTube or Twitter?
The spread of rumors is like wildfire that is hard to control.
It spreads distrust and can undermine someone's faith.
This is not to say that the slave is perfect
and never makes mistakes.
But Jehovah and Jesus trust the imperfect slave
who cares for things to the best of his ability
and with the best of motives.
Shouldn't we then trust the imperfect slave as well?
To appreciate the extent of Jehovah's and Jesus trust
in the faithful slave reflect on what he has promised its members.
He has promised them immortality and incorruption.
Soon, just before Armageddon,
the remaining members of the slave will be taken to heaven.
Since 1919 of our common era,
the slave has been put in charge of some belongings of Christ.
According to Matthew 24, 47,
when the anointed are taken to heaven,
Jesus will, at that point,
entrust all His belongings to them.
Does this not reveal immense trust?
Revelation 4 4 describes these resurrected,
anointed as co-rulers with Christ.
Revelation 22 5 says they will rule not only for a thousand years,
but forever and ever.
What immense trust Jesus shows toward them.
Since Jehovah God and Jesus Christ completely trust the faithful
and discreet slave,
should we not do the same?
Many servants of Jehovah in the past show trust in Jehovah
when confronted with obstacles or opposition.
We can trust that Jehovah will not let us be tested
beyond what we can bear,
but will provide a way out so we can remain faithful under trials.
So whom do you trust?
You fully trust in Jehovah, Jesus, and the faithful slave.
To a reasonable degree, you also trust all your fellow brothers and sisters.
The writer of Psalm 142 mentioned something else we need to trust in.
God's Word.
He wrote, for I put my trust in your Word.
The prophecies in God's Word have always come true at the proper time.
Based on that, we can trust fully
that the remaining prophecies pointing to the survival of the great tribulation
and to the paradise to follow will also come true
without the slightest possibility of failure.
Of course, we should trust not only Jehovah, Jesus,
the faithful slave and the Bible,
but also our fellow brothers.
The Apostle Paul is a fine example of this.
He wrote in Philemon, or two Philemon,
asking him to kindly receive back the runaway slave
or nesimus that had become a brother.
Paul wrote in Philemon 21,
I'm confident that you will comply, so I'm writing you,
knowing that you will do even more than what I say.
When we speak of trust, we sometimes think of a little child
a walking hand in hand with his father.
The child does not question whether father will take him.
The child trusts the father.
All throughout the last days, true Christians have faced hostility
of so many in the world.
How strengthening Jehovah's promises
in view of the impending attack by Satan's hordes?
When they attack, Jehovah's people will seem as defenseless,
but we do not need to quake with fear.
We trust that Jehovah, Jesus and the angels
will fight to deliver us.
We will not shrink back in fear.
In Hebrews 10, 39, Paul wrote,
now we are not the sort who shrink back to destruction,
but the sort who have faith for the preserving of our lives.
Today and after Armageddon,
all can say according to Psalm 261 and 52,
8, I have trusted in Jehovah without wavering.
My trust is in God's loyal love forever and ever.
Therefore, keep trusting in Jehovah
and those who are proving loyal to Him.